EC2 - Fundamentals
Elastic Compute Cloud

- [ ] EC2
	Renting Virtual Machines (EC2)
	Storing Data on VM (EC2)
	Distributing load across machines (ELB)
	Scaling the services using auto-scaling group (ASG)

- [ ] EC2 sizing & config
	Operating Sys
	How much compute power & cores (CPU)
	How much random-access memory (RAM)
	How much storage space:
		Network-attached (EBS & EFS)
		Hardware (EC2 Instance Store)
	Network card: speed of card, Public IP address
	Firewall rules: security	group
	Bootstrap script (config at first launch): EC2 user data

- [ ] EC2 User Data
	it is possible to bootstrap instances using EC2 User Data script
	EC2 user data is used to automate boot tasks such as:
		install updated
		install software
		download common files from the internet
		anything you can think of
	EC2 User Data Script runs with the root user

- [ ] EC2 Instance types
		i.e, m3.2xl
			m: instance class
			5: generation (AWS improves over time)
			2xlarge: size within instance class
	General purpose
		diverse in workloads such as web servers and code repos
	Compute Optimized
		compute intensive tasks that require high performance
	Memory Optimized
		large data sets in memory
	Accelerated Computing
	Storage Optimized
		storage-intensive tasks that require high, sequential read and write access to large data sets on local storage
	Instance Features
	Measuring Instance Performance

- [ ] EC2 Security Groups
	only contain ALLOW rules
	control how traffic is allowed in or out of our EC2 Instance
	can be referenced by IP or by security group
	act as firewall
	regulate:
		access to ports
		authorized IP ranges - IPv4 and IPv6
		control inbound and outbound traffic
	good to know:
		can be attached to multiple instances
		locked down to a region / VPC combination
		does live ‘outside’ EC2 - if traffic is blocked the EC2 instance won’t see it
		its good to maintain one separate security group for SSH access
		** if your app is not accessible (time out), then its a security group issue
		if your app gives ‘connection refused’ error, then its an app error or its not launched
		all inbound traffic is blocked by default
		all outbound traffic is endorsed by default

- [ ] Classic Ports to know
  	22 = SSH (secure shell) - log into a linux instance
  	21 = FTP (File Transfer Protocol) - upload files into a file share
  	22 = SFTP (Secure File Transfer Protocol) - upload files using SSH
  	80 = HTTP - access unsecured websites
  	443 = HTTPS - access secured websites
  	3389 = RDP (Remote Desktop Protocol) - Lon into a Windows instance

- [ ] SSH
	Allows you to control a remote machine, all using the command line
	To SSH into Instance: ssh -i <pem-file-name.pem> ec2-user@<ip-address>

- [ ] SSH Troubleshooting
	There's a connection timeout
		This is a security group issue. Any timeout (not just for SSH) is related to security groups or a firewall. 
		Ensure your security groups are correctly assigned to your EC2 instance.

	There's still a connection timeout issue
		If your security group is properly configured, and you still have connection timeout issues, then that means a corporate firewall or a personal 		firewall is blocking the connection.

	SSH does not work on Windows
		If it says: ssh command not found, that means you have to use Putty

	There's a connection refused
		This means the instance is reachable, but no SSH utility is running on the instance
		Try to restart the instance
		If it doesn't work, terminate the instance and create a new one.
    		Make sure you're using Amazon Linux 2

	Permission denied (publickey,gssapi-keyex,gssapi-with-mic)
		This means either two things:
		You are using the wrong security key or not using a security key.
    Please look at your EC2 instance configuration to make sure you have assigned the correct key to it.
		You are using the wrong user. Make sure you have started an Amazon Linux 2 EC2 instance, and make sure you're using the user ec2-user. This is something you specify when doing ec2-user@<public-ip> (ex: ec2-user@35.180.242.162) in your SSH command or your Putty configuration


	I was able to connect yesterday, but today I can't
		This is probably because you have stopped your EC2 instance and then started it again today. When you do so, the public IP of your EC2 instance will change. Therefore, in your command, or Putty configuration, please make sure to edit and save the new public IP.

- [ ] EC2 Instance Connect
	terminal launched in AWS website
	works same as SSH
	NEEDS SSH inbound rule

- [ ] Roles (Policies) <-> EC2 Instances
- [ ] EC2 Instances Purchasing Options
	On-Demand Instances - short workloads, predictable pricing, pay by second
	Reserved(1 & 3 years)
		Reserved Instances -  long workloads
		Convertible Reserved Instances -  long workloads with flexible instances
	Savings Plan (1 & 3 years) - commitment to an amount of usage, long workload
	Spot Instances - short workloads, cheap, can lose instances, less reliable
		cheapest option
		batch jobs
		data analysis
		image processing
		any distributed workload
		** no suitable for critical jobs or databases

		you can only cancel a Spot Instance requests that are open, active or disabled.
		Cancelling a Spot Request does NOT terminate instances
		You must first cancel a Spot Request, and then terminate the associated Spot Instances

    - [ ] 	Spot Fleet
		Spot Fleet = set of Spot Instances + (optional) On-Demand
		The Spot Fleet will try to meet the target capacity with price constraints
			Define possible launch pool
			Can have multiple launching instances when reaching capacity or max cost
			Spot Fleet stop laughing when reaching capacity or max cost
		Strategies to allocate Spot Instances:
			- lowestPrice: from the pool with the lowest price (cost optimization short workload)
			- diversified: distributed across all pools (great for availability, long workloads)
			- capacityOptimized: pool with the optimal capacity
			- priceCapacityOptimized (recommended): pools with highest capacity available, then select the pool with the lowest price (best choice for most workloads)
		Spot Fleets allow us to automatically request Spot Instances with the lowest price

	Dedicated Host - book an entire physical server, control instance placement
		most expensive option
		useful for software that have complicated licensing model (BYOL - Bring Your Own License)
		for companies that have strong regulatory or compliance needs
	Dedicated Instances -  no other customer will share your hardware
	Capacity Reservations - reserve capacity tuna a specific AZ for any duration

- [ ] EC2 Fundamentals Quiz:
    Which EC2 Purchasing Option can provide you the biggest discount, but it is not suitable for critical jobs or databases?
    A: Spot Instances

    What should you use to control traffic in and out of EC2 instances?
    A: Security Groups

    How long can you reserve an EC2 Reserved Instance?
    A: 1 or 3 years
    
    You would like to deploy a High-Performance Computing (HPC) application on EC2 instances. Which EC2 instance type should you choose?
    A: Compute Optimized

    Which EC2 Purchasing Option should you use for an application you plan to run on a server continuously for 1 year?
    A: Reserved Instances

    You are preparing to launch an application that will be hosted on a set of EC2 instances. This application needs some software installation and some OS packages need to be updated during the first launch. What is the best way to achieve this when you launch the EC2 instances?
    A: Write a bash script that installs the required software and updates top your OS, then use the script in EC2 User Data when you launch your EC2 instances

    Which EC2 Instance Type should you choose for a critical application that uses an in-memory database?
    A: Memory Optimized

    You have an e-commerce application with an OLTP database hosted on-premises. This application has popularity which results in its database has thousands of requests per second. You want to migrate the database to an EC2 instance. Which EC2 Instance Type should you choose to handle this high-frequency OLTP database?
    A: Storage Optimized

    Security Groups can be attached to only one EC2 instance.
    A: False

    You're planning to migrate on-premises applications to AWS. Your company has strict compliance requirements that require your applications to run on dedicated servers. You also need to use your own server-bound software license to reduce costs. Which EC2 Purchasing Option is suitable for you?
    A: Dedicated Hosts
    
    You would like to deploy a database technology on an EC2 instance and the vendor license bills you based on the physical cores and underlying network socket visibility. Which EC2 Purchasing Option allows you to get visibility into them?
    A: Dedicated Hosts